1. Project Description
The goal of this project is to analyze datasets and improve data quality using AWS Services, Specifically, the project focuses on performing descriptive analysis of operational datasets, such as UCW policies data, to explore the ER Diagram, The resources of AWS services, reason to support my implementation.
I used AWS services, such as S3, Glue, DataBrew, CloudWatch to store, clean, identify the data profiling, and transform the data.
2. Project Tiltle
Descriptive Analysis of Operational Dataset of UCW's Policies by using AWS services
3. Objective
The objective of this project is to clean, transform, and analyze operational datasets efficiently using AWS servicesm focusing on issues, like missing data, outliers handling and inconsistencies, to provide meaningul insights that support business operation
4. Dataset
The project use CSV dataset contain University Name, Program ID, Student ID, Program Type, Enrolment ID, Application ID, etc. The data os store in S3 and will be processed using AWS Glue DataBrew for cleaning and transformation before analyzed
5. Methodology
5.1 Data Ingestion: Data is uploaded to Amazon S3. The data is stored in a highly durable and available storage format for easy access.
5.2 Data Profiling: Using AWS Glue DataBrew, the data is analyzed for missing values, data consistency, and outliers.
5.3 Data Cleaning: Missing values and inconsistencies are addressed through imputation or removal.
5.4 Data Transformation: Data is cleaned and transformed into a consistent format for further analysis.
5.5 Data Summarization: Summarize the data information into understanable form by using AWS Glue with Visual ETL.
6. Tools and Technologies
6.1 AWS S3: Used to store the raw data and processed datasets.
AWS Glue: Use to clean, transform, and catalog datasets.
AWS Glue DataBrew: A no-code tool used for data profiling and preparation.
AWS Lambda: Used for automation of data processing tasks.
7. Deliverables
7.1 A cleaned and transformed dataset ready for analysis
7.2 Understand then process of data analysis and resources to support
7.3 A final analysis report highlighting trends and patterns in the data, based on descriptive analysis
7.1 Visualization creating for business stakeholders
